
1 At which stage of the software development cycle are the needs of the client first identified?
A. Implementation
B. Testing and evaluating
C. Planning and designing
D. Defining and understanding

2 A company wants to survey people to find out their top five sources of news. A person can choose up to five options from a list. Which of the following should be used in the survey?
A. Scroll bars
B. Check boxes
C. Radio buttons
D. Drop-down lists

3 A fragment of documentation is shown.
<<"2021-mc-3.png">>
What type of documentation is this?
A. IPO chart
B. Storyboard
C. Data dictionary
D. Context diagram

4 Which of the following describes a Creative Commons licence?
A. It allows distribution of a limited version of the software product.
B. It makes software available for use with no intellectual property rights.
C. It specifies the maximum legal number of simultaneous users of the software.
D. It allows an author to specify how others can share, use and build upon their work.

5 Which of the following is an essential feature of event-driven software?
A. It is coded using a low-level language.
B. It has a graphic user interface with buttons.
C. The programmer determines the order of execution.
D. Inputs are processed to determine what happens next.

6 What is the purpose of a sentinel value in a sequential file?
A. It marks the end of data in the file.
B. It identifies a specific item in the file.
C. It prevents unauthorised access to the file.
D. It indicates the number of items in the file.

7 In a program, a sequence of statements must be executed at least once. Which control structure will ensure that this occurs?
A. Binary selection
B. Pre-test repetition
C. Post-test repetition
D. Multiway selection

8 Consider the following code fragment.
<<"2021-mc-8.png">>
Which of the following involves parameter passing?
A. Line 6 only
B. Line 7 only
C. Lines 2 and 4
D. Lines 6 and 7
<<for 9 10>>
In a complex modular system, module A calls module B. During the testing process, an error message was produced indicating that module A had provided too few parameters for module B to proceed.

9 Which type of error had occurred?
A. Syntax
B. Runtime
C. Overflow
D. Type mismatch

10 Which system modelling tool would best help a developer understand the cause of the error?
A. Context diagram
B. Storyboard
C. Structure chart
D. System flowchart

11 In a project meeting, team members presented their code for others to review and identify errors. Which error detection method was being applied?
A. Deskchecking
B. Program trace
C. Single line stepping
D. Structured walkthrough

12 In an array of records, Members(X).FeesPaid stores whether or not a member has paid their fees. Which row of the table correctly shows the data type for X and the data structure for FeesPaid?
<<"2021-mc-12">>
A. A
B. B
C. C
D. D